[MUSIC] Plagiarism, as defined in Coursera's Honor
Code, is when you copy words, ideas or any other materials from another
source without giving credit. Plagiarism is unacceptable in
any academic environment and is a serious violation of
Coursera's Honor Code. Plagiarism may result in failing
assignments, removal from the course, or even dismissal from
the Coursera Community. So what does this look like and
what is considered plagiarism? Copying and pasting someone else's words. If you're copying and
pasting words written by another person, this is considered plagiarism
unless you credit them properly. Even if you change the order or change specific words, you must still
give them credit for their work. For example, copying and pasting
words written by another learner or a staff member in an assignment,
quiz, or discussion forum, and submitting them as your own is prohibited. If you notice work that's been copied,
please flag the assignment, or assignments. Submitting a file created by someone else. In some courses in this specialization,
you'll be asked to submit images and charts for assignments. Submitting an image that's been created
and submitted by another learner and submitting it as your own is considered
plagiarism and is prohibited. Stealing ideas. Some assignments may
require some creativity. It's considered plagiarism to steal
the creative ideas of another, even if you create the document for
submission yourself. It is common in an academic or
business environment that two or more people may come up
with the same ideas. To protect yourself from being accused
of stealing, not just in this course but in your career, it's good practice
to track your revisions or document your thinking in some way. You may want to maintain a journal of
when a idea or concept originated. Please make sure you're submitting your
own work throughout this specialization. If you see plagiarism happening
in the specialization, please flag the assignment and bring it
to the attention of the course staff.