[MUSIC] We want to give you some tips on
how to succeed in this course. Here are some ways to be a better
learner that have lead to success in our specialization. Use the method of learning that works for
you, ask questions, submit your own work, be respectful and
protect your personal data. First, we suggest that you use a method
of learning that works for you. We provide you with video lectures and
as well as corresponding course notes. Either provides a complete view of the course. So you may choose whichever
method is most effective for you. If you learn better by reading material,
then use our course notes. If you're more of a visual or auditory learner, then you may be more
successful by using the video lectures. Video lectures also have subtitles and
transcripts that you can read as well. So perhaps using both the course notes and
video lectures will work best for you. Next, we suggest you ask questions. If you're unsure of the course material
you're probably not the only one. Please post your questions in the forums. We have a strong community here. Other learners, and of course moderators,
will be more than willing to help you out. Our third tip for you,
is to submit your own work. Our assessments are designed to help
you practice many of the concepts that are covered in the course. However, if you’re not completing
the assignment yourself, you’re not reaping the full benefits
the assessment has to offer. Not only are you missing out
on a learning opportunity, but copying the work of someone else may
result in negative consequences. As per the Coursera honor code,
plagiarism is when you copy words, ideas, or any other materials from another
source without giving proper credit. Credit should be given by
using proper citations. Plagiarism is unacceptable in
any academic environment and is a serious violation of
Coursera's honor code. Plagiarism could result in failing
assignments, removal from the course or even dismissal from
the Coursera Community. Next, we encourage you to be
respectful in the course. This is a learning environment for
many learners from around the world. Please be respectful of your peers, and
keep in mind they may come from different cultures, speak different languages, and
come from different backgrounds than you. You may also be aware of
the tone that you write. It's not always easy to properly
interpret the tone in written text. And so, something could be
misinterpreted or taken the wrong way. Any inflammatory remarks
will not be tolerated. And finally, to be a better learner,
we suggest you protect your personal data. We encourage you to connect with
other learners in the course. However, prefer that you do not share
your personal address, phone number, or email address in the discussion forms.