[MUSIC] Okay, so now that I've covered the
importance of software product management, let's talk about what your role would
be as a software product manager, It is a central management role. It sort of resembles being a producer and
a director for a movie, but without the red carpet fame. You're in charge of the success
of a software product. But the role is much more
than just managing a project. The role involves really
understanding the product. That is, you have to know what it does and
its unique benefits, like a real user. You're also going to have to
know the business case, that is, the value that this project will have for
the client, and the way the software will change
the game for this client's business. Great software product managers
have mastered multiple disciplines. They can speak to both clients and
developers in their terms. They can listen and imagine a client's
vision, communicate effectively with their development team members, and motivate
the team to achieve the best outcomes. They can also manage
clients' expectations, and they also know how to get the best
efforts out of their development team. They care about their people. Does that sound like
something you'd be good at? Success of your product also
depends on solid teamwork. Programmers, testers, interface designers,
graphic artists, must work together. Your role is to empower them to bring
their best efforts to your project. Software product management
is a leadership role. Let's take a look at a few
interviews of what those already in the industry feel about this role. [MUSIC] >> My role actually is one of
leading software development teams. I do see myself, though,
as a product leader, and I encourage everybody on the team
to see themselves as a product leader. >> I have a software
product manager on my team. We work closely together in partnership. The product manager works to
bring requirements to me, and to help me understand what
our customers need, and then I work to fulfill those
requirements with the team. >> So a lot of what I do is to
define a vision product strategy, product road map, and
also specifications for the developement team,
as well as our experienced design team [MUSIC] >> What excites me, what challenges me,
is getting the engineers, the testing team, the documentation team,
understanding in no uncertain terms what the problem is we
are trying to solve, that makes my day. >> The product manager
meets with the customer, they get an idea, they get a vision for
how something could be, they articulate that vision back to their engineering
team and the associated stakeholders, and then they actually see it be
produced as working software. And it's tremendously satisfying for
the product manager to see it actually delivered and to then see the impact that
has on the customer and their reality. >> Seeing how customers react
to the finished product, reading reviews about it, seeing it
in stores, is enormously rewarding. [MUSIC] >> Getting the team to
rally around the problem. If people show up for work because there's a job
for them, they don't innovate. They'll do what you tell them to do and
they'll go home. If they internalize the mission of
the problem you're trying to solve, magic happens. >> Ambiguity is huge. I think we see that customers don't always have the ability to
explain what exactly it is that they want. And so we tend to employ a lot
of different strategies to uncover what it is they want,
even if they can't tell us. So we might watch a customer. We might sit and watch them do their job
for a while to help get past the ambiguity of them saying something, even and
to find out what they actually need. People can have 100 different
ways of solving it, right? And so this is where, for me,
the approach of experimentation, rapid iteration,
is really the key to solving that. So it’s acknowledging
the differences of opinion and the lack of shared vision, and say okay. What are we gonna do to
actually solve that and how do we determine whether that's
the right course of action or not? [MUSIC] >> As a leader, first and foremost,
you need to be able to do three things. You need to be able to motive with
your vision, you need to be able to organise the work that needs to be done,
and you need to be able to innovate. Frankly, if you can't innovate yourself, it is your job to hire people
who can help you innovate. >> They need to be able to
hear what somebody is saying, what a customer is saying, and
turn that into a requirement and ultimately a specification that
an engineering team can build and deliver. >> Next thing,
you need to be able to communicate. As a person who communicates, or sells,
your vision across the organization at all levels, to executives, to engineering
teams, to sales teams, to marketing teams. You need to be able to understand at what
altitude all these things exist at and what messaging resonates with them. >> The ability to form really great
relationships, think strategically. Also be really tactical when need be. >> It's not about you. It's never about you as a product leader. It's about the customer problem. Your job, my job,
fall in love with a customer problem. [MUSIC] >> People will either start
from the business side and realize they've got some interest and
skill at software, and they understand kind of the general
idea of how software is built. And so then they'll get a little
more technical aptitude and they start to get involved
in things from that side. >> Personally,
I came from a comp sci background. I grew up as a programmer. And slowly I've migrated into
a product leadership role. But I've also seen
people with music majors who have become amazing product leaders. What do we have in common? Me, who has a computer science degree and
the guy who has a music degree, is, first and foremost, leadership. If you're able to motivate people,
able to organize people and can innovate,
you can do well in product management. I think other's come at it
from the engineering side, where they're a great engineer, but maybe
they decide they've got more passion for that vision, and
the planning side of things, and the collaboration,
rather than the implementation side. I think a lot of product managers learn on
the job, when you get right down to it. [MUSIC] >> Apply for it. Apply for it. Look for it online, apply for it. But 
understand this, you are here to lead people, you are here to lead a process,
you are here to solve a customer problem. If you believe that that is you, from a
self-awareness perspective, apply for it. >> They should get to know their
engineers, they should get to be very well aligned with the problems faced by
engineers, with the opportunities that engineers can bring to the table, and
really focus on that partnership, I think. Customers and
customer research is critical, and that's a basic skill of a product manager,
so that's just expected. I think over and above that, though, to just really be good at building those
partnerships with their own team and, again, with their
stakeholder teams as well. >> For me, it's be customer obsessed. Be grounded in the customer,
understand them really, really well, because it's gonna
be your job to represent them. If you start with that, and
you can do that really well, if you can understand your
customers at a deep level, then you're already kind of
ahead of the game, if you will. >> As you've just seen, the position of a software product
manager can be a fulfilling career path. Capable managers earn the respect
of both clients and team members. Great managers are sought after for their track record of
successful product deliveries. Whether you want to make a move from
developer to product manager, or you understand the business side and
you want to move to more of a hands-on role in shaping the software, or maybe
you want to look for a career change and work more in software project management. So whatever your reason for starting this
path, this specialization will guide you step by step to become a competent,
confident software product manager. So what are you waiting for? Check out our next lesson to see
an overview of this specialization.