[MUSIC] All right. So you know that you need to have
processes in place within your projects to ensure that you're staying on track. Morgan told you all about
that a few lessons ago. You know that it's important that you
elicit requirements from your clients in meaningful ways. We talked about that together. You also learned why you need
to consistently create useful plans for development. That, was covered by Morgan
in the previous lesson. In this lesson, I'm going to tell you
about what happens after all the planning is done, and you engage in actually
building your software project. As a product manager,
you don't just step back and watch the development team do their thing. In order to ensure that you're on track,
you must actively monitor, analyze, and review your progress. Consider this, you're working on
a project commissioned by your client. You've established a development process,
you have your requirements nailed down, and you've done all your planning. Your development team is happily
coding away at the project. And everything seems to be
going according to plan. A few weeks pass. Then a few months. And now you're two weeks
away from your deadline. You look at what still needs to be
developed by the end of the project, and you panic! You still have at least
a month's worth of work to do. You're going to have to tell your client
that you won't be meeting their deadline. All of a sudden, your development team is working
overtime to get things done quickly. The office floor is littered
with empty energy drink cans and coffee cups,
your developers are getting sick and burnt out, your product quality
is going down the drain. Now you're pulling your hair out
because your client is blaming you for not meeting the previously
agreed upon deadline. How did you get to this place when
everything seemed to be going so well? Sadly, this situation is very
common in software development. Being individually busy is not
enough to ensure effective progress. A gut feeling of being on track can be an
unreliable way to measure your project's real progress. If you have experienced
software development before, you're likely all too familiar
with the crunch time phenomenon that happens when project
deadlines creep up unexpectedly. This happens often with a great
deal of work still remaining. If you had been monitoring the progress
of your project since the beginning, you might have been able to
avoid the situation entirely. But not to worry. Over the decades, the software development
community has established proven practices to avoid the problematic
scenario that I just described. Now that you know a bit about why
monitoring your progress is important, let's see if you can remember
some of the reasons. Scott is a software product manager. Because his client kept changing what
they wanted the product to do, and because his development team didn't
get their work done fast enough, he's about to miss a major deadline. He is frustrated with how nosey his
client is being with the project and thinks that tracking his
developers' individual efforts will allow him to make corrective
action if they're not performing well. Please select a problem Scott
will solve through monitoring. A. Adapting to changing
product requirements. B. Avoiding having to fire his least
productive productive developer. C. Working without
interruptions from the client. And/or D. Meeting project plan deadlines. Monitoring helps us adapt to changes and
meet deadlines. While monitoring your progress allows
you to track developers productivity, it should not be seen as a way
to assess their career progress. Keep it light. It should also not be a substitute for good communication with your client.
Therefore the correct answers are A and D. Velocity is just one of the ways in
which we can monitor our progress. It is just one of the ways in which you
can easily identify when something is going wrong and make the appropriate
changes to address the problem. You can also identify when something
is going right within the project and celebrate the small victories. This won't only keep your project on track
and improve its quality when delivered to the customer,
it will also boost your team's morale and give them a high degree of
transparency within the project. I want to be clear though,
transparency doesn't mean tracking your development teams’ progress and
keeping them in the dark. Transparency means that everyone on the
team knows the status of the project and not just management. When the development team and
the product manager work together to monitor their progress, with a positive,
goal driven and team based mentality, monitoring your project can become
a way to bring the team together. Nobody likes crunch time, and monitoring
is a method which the team can use to help each other avoid late nights and
long hours. Now that you've seen how monitoring can
affect teams, let's test your knowledge. Rus is a product manager working on
a project with his development team. He has chosen to share the details of what
he is tracking throughout the project in order to keep his
whole team in the loop. What aspect of monitoring
is Rus implementing? A. Collaboration. B. Visibility. C. Verification. Or D. Validation. Visibility is the word
we use to describe when everyone on the team
knows the project status. That makes B the correct answer. Although monitoring often leads to
increased collaboration within development teams due to a greater
amount of discussion, Rus is not specifically
implementing this here. Verification and
validation are used to describe other collaborative aspects of
software engineering but not this one. So, at the core of
monitoring your progress is this idea of delivering your
product on time and to specification. Of course, this helps with making better
software and ultimately, happier clients. But, monitoring can be so much more than just creating
amazing things on tight schedules. If done well, monitoring can be
a fantastic way to build a sense of common purpose and give your developers a sense
of being part of a tightly knit team. If you want to learn more about this, I encourage you to please join me in
the last course of this specialization. There, I'll be diving deeper
into the specific ways in which you can go about monitoring and
reviewing your projects. You made it to the end of
the first course, congratulations. Hopefully you've gotten a good taste of
what's to come throughout the rest of our Software Product
Management specialization. We've covered a lot of material in
a short amount of time, and there's so much more to discover. Here's what we covered
in this first course. The first module was our
introduction to the course. Ken talked generally about why software
product managers are important, as well as what we can do to help
development teams create better software. He then went into an overview of how
this specialization is structured and what you can expect out of it. In the second module,
we dove right into the details. We covered why you need to have processes,
requirements, planning and review techniques to be successful. I really hope that you took away
something from these courses, and I really hope that you can apply
that to your future projects. We have designed the next two
courses of this specialization, to be taken in which
ever order you please. They will set you up for
the planning course, which we have designed to be taken after
you complete both introductory courses. Whichever course you end up taking first, we're really looking forward to
having you with us on this journey. See you soon.