[MUSIC] Welcome to an exploration of Agile. As I present the foundations of Agile
practices, I'm confident that you will see how these guiding principles can
improve the success of your projects. Previously, I demonstrated
that using Agile practices are better than using
a haphazard management approach. I'm sure you're wondering at this point,
what is Agile? The Agile Manifesto was created when 17
software gurus gathered at a ski resort to come up with better ways to manage
the process of producing great software. And because every group of
important people needs a cool name, these founders became known
as the Agile Alliance. They established four core value
statements about what is most important in software development. To further expand on the core values, the Alliance also agreed on
12 supporting principles. Let's look at what they came up with. Individuals and
interactions over processes and tools. Working software over
comprehensive documentation. Customer collaboration
over contract negotiation. Responding to change
over following a plan. That is, while there is still
value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more. When the Agile Alliance say they
value the first items more, they are not suggesting
that you ignore process and tools, comprehensive documentation,
contract negotiation, or following a plan. They are suggesting that the first items
are the more important things to focus on. Paula has been managing the development
of a new database system for True North Aerospace Systems. Every two weeks, she invites her
client to a Friday afternoon meeting where the development team demonstrates
the latest product prototype. This week's meeting
resulted in the client and development team discussing how
a new user interface feature would allow users to easily enter
information into the database. Paula documented the new requirements and
made a note to herself to schedule a meeting with the legal team and
the client. Signing off on a revised
contract is required so that the team has a specification
of the new feature in writing. Check all the ways Paula is in alignment
with the values of the Agile Manifesto. A. a new prototype is
demonstrated on a regular basis. B. development team has face
to face time with the client. C. product evolves as new
needs are identified. And/or D. contract is updated
to specify the new feature. Answer A aligns with the Agile value
of delivering working software. Answer B is aligned with the Agile
values of customer collaboration and individuals' interactions. Answer C aligns with the Agile
value of aligning to change. Paula is not in alignment with the Agile
value of customer collaboration over contract negotiation. Although she encourages frequent and open communication with her client, a
contract needs to be revised in order for the development team to know
the agreed specification for a feature. Let's take a detailed look at the four
core values in the manifesto. Value one states, individuals and
interactions over processes and tools. Your developers and clients will be more productive and
effective in a collaborative relationship. As a product manager,
you are not a messenger. You need to facilitate communication
between the people wanting the product and the people producing the product. Value two states, working software
over comprehensive documentation. Recall that the manifesto states
the secondary items still have value. Therefore, documentation should still be
created constantly throughout the project. But when tough choices have to be made,
a piece of working software is a lot more valuable than a document
that outlines what the software should do. Value three states, customer
collaboration over contract negotiation. This means you need to foster a positive
relationship with your customer that is more concerned
with what they want and not as concerned with what is
laid out in some contract. The client is the center of design and it is important to make sure that their
vision is what is being developed. Value number four states, responding
to change over following a plan. Software is constantly changing and it is
important to develop your software in such a way that changes
are easy to respond to. As you progress through the four
foundational courses, you will learn many Agile practices that will make
your project more change friendly. Now you may be thinking that one or more
of these values may be unrealistic for you to implement in your projects and
that's okay, Agile is flexible. What is important is that you
implement the values that do work.