[MUSIC] Hi, I'm Ken Wong. Welcome to the Software Processes and Agile Practices Course within the software
product management specialization. This course will provide fundamental
elements to the specialization while serving one leg in inukshuk the that depicts
the structure of our specialization. In this segment, I'll give you
a preview of what you will learn. while describing the general format
and objectives for the course. In the introductory course of this series, I said that making better
software involves three goals. These goals are the right product
done right and managed right. I also said that developing
a great software product requires the coordinated
work of many people. But what helps connect
your goals with your people? The solution is processes and practices. In order to avoid project chaos you need
to introduce structure and discipline. In this course you will learn how software
projects are organized using processes you'll also learn about practices that can help you
to achieve goals for better software. There are four modules in this course. In the first module Morgan Patzelt will
explain what a software process is. She'll describe how it breaks
down into phases, activities, and tasks that'll help you to organize work. If you're not familiar
with software development, don't worry, she'll also describe
key activities in making software. In the second module, Bradley Poulette will describe
a series of software process models. He'll cover these models as they evolve
from earlier linear ones to modern iterative and parallel models. He will also talk about different
forms of software prototyping, which will help you to deliver a product
using a cycle of more refined versions. This module will help you to choose
from different process models and prototyping strategies, and
to customize them for your project. In the third module, Morgan returns to
guide you through specific agile practices which tend to work best with
modern software processes. She'll cover two popular
agile methodologies. Extreme programming which is
focused on development and SCRUM which is focused on management. In the fourth and final module
Bradley will talk about the principles of Lean software development which
will compliment the Agile principles. Lean will help you to reduce
waste in your project and provide solutions to improve the
overall quality of your product. He will also talk about Kanban as a way to
visualize the progress of your tasks. By the end of the course you'll gain
a wide repertoire of processes and practices. You'll be able to apply them to organize
people in your next project, and to make a better software product.