Hello. I'm Jonathan Schaeffer,
a computer scientist, and the dean of the Faculty of Science
at the University of Alberta. It's my privilege to introduce
you to the University of Alberta's Software Product Management
specialization, developed within our
computing science department. This collection of courses will teach you
how to successfully guide the development, of a software product from inception,
to delivery. The University of Alberta is considered
among the world's leading public, research, and
teaching intensive universities. As one of Canada's top universities, we're
known for excellence across the sciences, humanities, creative arts, business,
engineering and health sciences. Our passion is in providing
a launching point for student success,
our goal is to inspire, transform and uplift our students, and
help them achieve their goals. Strong collaboration and
communication skills are as critical to the development of complex software,
as they are to many areas of our lives. With this in mind, our team of
computing experts will provide you with the processes and practices required
to master Agile Software development. Our real world understanding of
the software product management process will provide you with everything you
will need to face challenges head on. We will teach you how to understand and
refine the software requirements of a client, and how to communicate those
requirements to a team of developers. You will learn techniques for monitoring
your projects to ensure they align to client needs, adhere to project plans,
and achieve a desired level of quality. You will have access to a software
product management community, where you can share your experiences,
and learn from the insights of others. The final course, a six week Capstone
project, will provide you with the opportunity to apply these management
techniques in realistic simulations. Upon successful completion of
the Capstone, you will be certified and prepared to excel in your career as a
software product management professional. I'm delighted that you are interested
in taking our specialization. We have done our part to make this
a rewarding educational experience. Now it's your turn, good luck. [MUSIC]