[MUSIC] Tasks also relate to roles. A role is a duty that a person takes on or
plays. Examples of some software
engineering roles are a programmer, a tester, a CEO, a client,
or a product manager. An actual person can play a role, and in doing so,
perform associated tasks for that role. In short, a role performs a task. Each person on a team has
specific responsibilities or tasks to perform while in a role. For example, a programmer may take on
the task of writing code for a certain feature, a tester may be assigned to test
that feature, and the product manager may review that feature once it's complete
to ensure it works as the client expects. You can see how roles help to organize
work based on the team members involved. Consider an application in which
users can share and view recipes. A user has the option to create
an account with a personal profile or use a guest account. Both the account holders and
guests can browse recipes, but a user must be logged into their personal
account in order to post recipes. Both types of users can also browse and
search recipes from the main page. Which of the following tasks could
be performed by a guest role? A, add optional information
to their profile. B, create an account. C, search recipes. D, browse recipes. And/or E, post a recipe. As specified earlier a user needs to log
in to an account in order to post recipe, therefore option E is incorrect. Similarly, to have a profile,
a user would need to have an account. Therefore, answer A is also incorrect. It was specified that both
user types can search and browse recipes, which means that those
tasks could be performed by a guest role. Also, a guest would be able to create
an account to become an account holder. Therefore, the correct answers are B,
C, and D. The next element that we will
examine is a work product. A work product is the output
that a task produces. [SOUND] This output could be anything
involved in the development, not just the final product. Work products do include
the final product, but they also include other intermediate
outputs such as designs, requirements, source code, test cases and
internal documentation. Since work products are outputs of tasks, we can say that a task
produces a work product. However, sometimes tasks
use work products as input. For example,
the tasks of writing source code for a feature will refer to
the feature's design. That design was the output of
a previous task to create a design. Therefore, a task also uses work products. Finally, for any task to be completed,
it needs resources. Resources are anything that improves,
advances, or funds work to be done. These could be things such as time,
money, technology, knowledge, or staff. Therefore, we can say
a task consumes a resource. To put this diagram into perspective,
let's look at an example. Say we are developing an application, your client requires that the user
is able to upload a profile picture, change their name, and
update their personal description. These are our requirements,
a task we have to do is write a test for uploading their profile picture. An activity containing this
task would be creating tests. This task will be
performed by a tester role. The tasks consumes many resources,
such as time, money, and technology. The work product that this
task produces are test cases. The task also uses the requirements
document as a work product, since you want to verify that the product
does what the requirements specified. In this case, we want to test that the
user is able to upload a profile picture. You have been assigned to a new project. In this project, your team is developing
a new database and checkout system for the local library. It uses a mobile app to checkout
books to the user's account. Theodore is a programmer
on your development team. He has been assigned to
writing source code for adding new books to the database,
establishing the database, writing the text for the help page, and
executing tests for creating an account. Which of these assignments is
an activity and not a task? A, writing source code for
adding new books to the database. B, establishing the database. C, writing the text for the help page. Or D, executing tests for
creating an account. Answer B is the most correct answer, since setting up a database
has many tasks involved. Theodore will have to do tasks such as
design the database and write code for the database. He will also have to do tasks
such as host the database and transfer the current
database to the new one. Tasks are low level, specific
actions like those in A, C, and D. There could be many low level
tasks in the high level activity of establishing the database.