[MUSIC] In the last lesson,
I outlined the basics of the spiral model. We talked a little bit about its
advantages and disadvantages, and how it fits into the timeline of the evolution
of software development processes. The spiral model was an iterative
model of software development. Meaning that the product is built
in a series of repeated phases. This is in contrast to
the linear process models, which we covered at
the beginning of this module. Such as the Waterfall model and
the V model. In this lesson, I'm going to talk about another
iterative model of software development. The Unified Process Model or
just Unified Process. As I said before, unified process is an
iterative model of software development. It's basic structure is to work in
a series of phases which get repeated until the final phase is deemed complete. Within most unified process phases, development happens in small iterations
until the phase is deemed complete. Usually, phases are deemed complete
when a milestone is reached. Unified process tries to emphasize
gradual development as much as possible. Instead of narrowing down all the
requirements of your software product at the beginning, unified process focuses on the importance of developing
your product's architecture over time. Architecture is a set of designs upon
which the software product is built. So in unified process,
the development team's focus is to develop design models
along with a working product. While the general structure of unified is
to build iteratively, the model allows for tasks done in one phase
to overlap with another. This is referred to as
doing work in parallel. So, instead of only going
through a sequence of phases, developers can actually do
things like design the product architecture while developing
tests at the same time. Jeff is building tests for his code as he
designs his product's architecture design. He's also clarifying and eliciting requirements from his client
occasionally, as he runs into issues. What style of software
development is Jeff using? A. Parallel development,
B. Iterative development, C. Incremental development, or
D. Synchronized development? The answer is A, parallel development. Since Jeff is participating in multiple
phases of development at once, we call this parallel. The first phase of the unified
process is called the inception phase. This phase is meant to be small,
just enough time to ensure that you have a strong enough basis to
continue on to the next phase. In fact the inception phase is
the only phase in unified process where development does
not happen in iterations. If your inception phase is long,
this might suggest that you have spent too much time building
requirement in the inception phase. Your main goal is to see if there's
a strong enough business case to continue development. What this means is that there has
to be good enough financial reason to build the product. To do this, the inception phase calls for
the creation of basic use cases. Use cases outline the main user
interactions with a product. In this phase, you also define
the project scope and potential risks. If you'd like to learn more about
use cases and how to create them please check out the course on client
needs and software requirements. At the end of the inception
phase you achieved the life cycle objective milestone. At this point, you'll have a reasonable
description of how viable the product is and be ready to move on to the next phase
of the process, the elaboration phase. The elaboration phase is the first
of the unified process phases to implement those small iterations,
which I mentioned earlier in this lesson. The goal of this phase is to
basically create a model, or a prototype of the product,
which you'll refine later. We'll talk more about different types
of prototypes later in this module. For now the purpose of this phase is
to define the system architecture. Developers define the requirements
conceived in the inception phase. They also develop key requirements
in architecture documentation, such as use case diagrams and
high level class diagrams. This gives the foundation on which
actual development will be built. Remember, this phase allows for
iterations, so building the prototype in an iteration
may go through a redesign before the requirements and architecture models
are deemed complete enough to move on. At the end of the elaboration phase,
developers deliver a plan for development in the next phase,
the construction phase. This plan basically builds on what was
developed during inception and integrates everything learned during elaboration so
the construction can happen effectively. Remember, in the unified process model,
development can happen in parallel. This means that when you
begin the construction phase, you'll continue to do work that was
being done in the elaboration phase. The only difference is that
the emphasis on the work may change. For instance, while testing and
programming may have been important in an elaboration, they become even
more important in construction. Similarly, assessing risks is
important in construction, but it's less important in this
phase than in an elaboration. The construction phase
is very straightforward. It's another phase in which
development can happen iteratively. It focuses on building upon the work
which was done in elaboration. This is where your product’s guts are really
built, and the product comes to life. In the construction phase, thorough use cases are developed
to drive product development. These use cases are more robust than
the ones created in the inception phase. Construction phases use cases
offer more specific insights into how your product should be created. Your product is built iteratively
throughout this construction phase until your product is
ready to be released. At that point, your development team
begins transitioning your product to your client and your users. Now that you've learned about
the inception, elaboration, and construction phases of the unified
process, let's test your understanding. Which of the following describe the main
aspects of the elaboration phase? A. Identifying a strong business case for
the project, B. Creating use cases, C. creating use case diagrams and,
or D. creating class diagrams. The correct answers are C and D. Use case diagrams and class diagrams are main work
products of the elaboration phase. That's not to say that these work
products don't also happen in the construction phase. It's just that they're more
focused in elaboration. You identify a strong business case for
the project in the inception phase. In this transition phase,
you have a major roll out of your product. Your development team receives
feedback from your users. It's at this point when you really see how
well your design stacks up against your users' needs. By gathering this feedback, your
development team can make improvements to your product, creating bug fixes and
other releases. After your product has
completed its iteration, it's possible to cycle back through
the phases of unified process again. This would be in cases where you intend
to create further major releases on the product and apply user feedback
as a means of influencing plans for later development. These cycles repeat until you and your development team are ready
to release your product. So that's unified process. Like I said at the top of the lesson, unified is an example of
an iterative process. But as you saw throughout this lesson,
unified is also a parallel process. Activities related to requirements,
design, and implementation can
happen at the same time. In the grand scheme of things
unified is much more similar to a spike-driving machine
than to a sledgehammer. It's a great process for large projects
where a great deal of refinement is needed in order for the product to stay on track. Having iterations allows your
product to grow naturally without becoming limited by upfront plans. In the next lesson,
I'm going to talk about prototyping, and how prototypes can be used to
drive software development. I'll see you there.